## Language
We used Python 2 with the SocketServer library for the UDP server interactions.  

## Execution
#### **Introducer**
An Introducer/Contact node is required to allow nodes to join the group membership.  
It must be executed from the *fa17-cs425-g48-01.cs.illinois.edu* VM with the command `python contact_node.py` and can run concurrently with a normal node. 
The introducer can be crashed by pressing `Ctrl-C`.  

#### **Ring Node**
A new node is joined to the ring group membership by calling `python ring_node.py`.  
The ring nodes can run on any VM.  
To simulate a ring node crash, press Ctrl-C.  
To simulate leaving, press Ctrl-\\.  
typing `m` will display the current membership list at that node, and `i` will display the node's assigned ID. 
All corresponding events regarding joining, leaving, and crashing are logged into vm.log of each ring_node's local directory.  
It should be noted that detecting failure may take a couple seconds because they are suspected first before being cleaned up.

## Internals
#### **Ring**
Each node in the ring has 4 neighbors in order to handle 4 failures.  
Of those 4 neighbors, 2 are predecessors and 2 are successors.  
The location of node on the ring is represented by an id, which is generated by introducer each time a new node joins.  

#### **Node rejoining**
When a ring node leaves/crashes and rejoins, it will be treated as a new member regardless how short interval is.  
After the introducer crashes, all operations will remain normal except node joining.  
When the introducer is launched again, it will allow nodes to join as expected.  

## Testing/Diagnostics
Each node will log every membership action into a file called vm.log. These files can be analyzed with the use of
`./log_grep <PATTERN> vm.log` for all machines with `./log_grep_server` running in the background. Other verification
 such as finding the ID and displaying the membership list are also useful tools for testing/diagnosing.
